docs: add user guide for provider (#594)
medibloc/panacea-core: .gitbook/1-users/3-data-exchange/2-provide-data.md

# Provide data

> Data providers can provide their data that match the requirements of the data deal and in return earn a reward.
> 
> The provider request verification of the data to oracle, and submits consent with oracle signature to the Panacea public blockchain.
> 
> Since the data is encrypted throughout the whole process of data transmission, no one can get the original data.
> 
> The transmission of data and the payment of rewards are managed atomically through the Panacea public blockchain, so consumers can get the data only when the reward payment is completed.

Reviewer: I added why user should first request to oracle for data verification.
I thought that user might feel a gap between submitting a consent and request for data verification to oracle.

```suggestion
Data providers can provide their data that match the requirements of the data deal and in return earn a reward.

Since only the data verified by oracle can be provided to a deal, providers should first request data verification to oracle.

As a result of verification, oracle will issue a certificate, then provider can provide their data by submitting a consent with the certificate to Panacea.

In the whole process of data transmission, the data is encrypted so that no one can access the original data.

The transmission of data and the payment of rewards are managed atomically through the Panacea public blockchain, so consumers can get the data only when the reward payment is completed.
```

> ## Post data to oracle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Request data verification to oracle
```

> Encrypt data that you wants to provide. 

Reviewer: Before request to oracle, you should encrypt your data for privacy preserving.

> Encryption is done using your chain account key and oracle public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encryption can be done using your chain account key and oracle public key which is registered in Panacea.
```

> This makes only oracles can decrypt your original data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This makes only oracles can decrypt and verify your original data in secure area(more information about [confidential oracle](../../3-protocol-devs/1-dep-specs/5-confidential-oracle.md)).
```

You can encrypt data by the following CLI:
```bash

> panacead encrypt-data ${input-file-path} ${your-account-key-name}\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
panacead encrypt-data ${input-file-path} ${your-account-key-name} \
```
It's generally better to put space in front of backticks, so that any kind of shells can execute it without any unexpected problems.

>   --chain-id ${chain-id}

Reviewer 3: And we don't need to `--chain-id` flag

```

You must specify a JWT issued by yourself in order to prove that you are the data provider.
For that authentication, the JWT must be signed by your (data provider's) chain account private key.

We highly recommend to set the expiration of JWT as short as possible for security reasons.

> In near future, the protocol will adopt the 'nonce' concept to improve the security of authentications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the near future, the protocol will adopt the 'nonce' concept to improve the security of authentications.
```

> You can issue jwt by the following CLI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can issue JWT by the following CLI:
```
Let's use uppercase for initialisms.

```bash
panacead issue-jwt ${expiration}\
  --chain-id ${chain-id}

> ```

Reviewer: Let's make this same with the one in [1-consume-data.md](https://github.com/medibloc/panacea-core/blob/docs/560/.gitbook/1-users/3-data-exchange/1-consume-data.md#access-data)

Using the following REST API, you can post encrypted data to oracle for verification with deal ID you want to provide.
```bash
curl -v -X POST -H "Authorization: Bearer ${jwt}" {oracle-url}/v0/data-deal/deals/{deal-id}/data -d ${encrpyted-data-json}
```

For `encrpyred-data-json`, create a following JSON file.
```json
{
  "provider_address" : "{your_address}",
  "data_hash" : "{data-hash-of-original-data}",
  "encrypted_data_base64" : "{encrypted-data}"
}
```
Through this process, the data is safely and securely transmitted to oracle, and the oracle verifies the data hash and data schema.
For more details about oracle data validation, please see the [Data Validation](../../3-protocol-devs/1-dep-specs/4-data-validation.md) specification.

> When the verification is complete, you can get a data certification that includes the oracle's signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the verification is completed, you can get a data certification that includes the oracle's signature.
```

## Submit consent

Broadcast the following `submit-consent` transaction with certification from oracle.
```bash

> panacead submit-consent ${certifiacte-file}\

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
panacead submit-consent ${certificate-file}\
```

Or the ${consent-file}?

Reviewer 4: Also, guide the provider how to make certificate file, please.

  --from ${data-provider-addr} \
  --chain-id ${chain-id} \
  --gas auto --gas-adjustment 1.30 --gas-prices 5umed \
  --node ${chain-node-rpc-addr}

> ```

Reviewer: Also, it'd be good to add an example for certificate-file

After you submit consent, Panacea public blockchain verifies the certificate and checks the status of the deal. 

> When verification is complete, Panacea makes the data accessible to consumers and makes you can get reward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When verification is completed, Panacea makes the data accessible to consumers and makes you can get reward.
```

## Query consent

> You can query a consent with deal ID you provided and its data hash .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can query a consent by the deal ID and data hash you provided.
```

{
  "provider_address" : "{your-address}",
  "data_hash" : "{data-hash-of-original-data}",
  "encrypted_data_base64" : "{encrypted-data}"
}
```
You have to use data hash of original data with SHA-256 hash function. For example, you can get hash by following CLI:
```bash
sha256sum ${original-data-path}
```

Through this process, the data is safely and securely transmitted to oracle, and the oracle verifies the data hash and data schema.
For more details about oracle data validation, please see the [Data Validation](../../3-protocol-devs/1-dep-specs/4-data-validation.md) specification.

When the verification is completed, you can get a data certificate that includes the oracle's signature.
The certificate form is like below:
```json
{
  "unsigned_certificate" : {
    "cid" : "{ipfs-cid}",
    "unique_id" : "{oracle-unique-id}",
    "oracle_address" : "{oracle-address}",
    "deal_id": "{deal-id}",
    "provider_address" : "{your-address}",
    "data_hash" : "{data-hash}"
  },
  "signature" : "{oracle-signature}"
}
```
Now you can use this certificate in the next step.

## Submit consent

Broadcast the following `submit-consent` transaction with certificate from oracle.
```bash

> panacead submit-consent ${certifiacte-file-path} \

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
panacead submit-consent ${certificate-file-path} \
```

Typo

  --from ${data-provider-addr} \
  --chain-id ${chain-id} \
  --gas auto --gas-adjustment 1.30 --gas-prices 5umed \
  --node ${chain-node-rpc-addr}
```

After you submit consent, Panacea verifies the certificate and checks the status of the deal. 

> When verification is completed, Panacea makes the data accessible to consumers and makes you can get reward.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When the verification is completed, Panacea makes the data accessible to consumers and makes you can get reward.
```
I'm not sure 😅
